---
layout: post
title: How Close are Artificial Neural Networks to the Brain?
tags: [ucog, chm]
abstract: Study of some existing Artificial Neural Networks models to compare their structure and performance and also to realise their biological resemblance to the processing in the brain. To bridge the gap between Deep Learning and Neuroscience.
---
Artificial Neural Networks were modelled after deriving analogies from the structure of brain in hope of getting close to do things in the way how our brain does and hoping it to give a good set of results on tasks which brain performs well. Several anologies has been developed and are performing incredibly well in their domain. But neuroscientists have mostly criticised about ANN and Deep Learning models as to be just a bunch of computation with nothing as close to how real brain works. So, here we tried to answer about this critisim by analysing the already existing models and relating their closeness to the brain.

We started with the study of Conventional NN, CNN and RNN model and evaluated them on MNIST digit dataset to draw some conclusion on their functioning. We performed rigurous training of several CNN and RNN model to achieve some remarkable test-set performances and drawn some important conclusions based on their implementation. We then proceeded to study about neural information processing in brain i.e how information are carried in human brain from one neuron to another and learning is carried in the brain. How analogies were made on this which led to the develpment of ANN. Next we will discuss about the controversies and shortcomings of present models. Then we performed a short survey of present research which were going on to overcome the shortcomings and develope a more biologically plausible Deep Learning models. Finally, at the end we will propose an model which is developed on the basis of biological principles with a hope to gear toward a more scalable Deep Learning algorithms and to bridge the gap between Deep Learning and Neuroscience
